# CLART
### Abstract
The aim of the project is to use GIS based methods for the site suitability analysis of feasibility of NRM works in India. Groundwater recharge potential is used as a metric to divide the area under study into various classes. The type of NRM for a location is based on said classification.
### Introduction
The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), promises unskilled manual work to every adult for at least 100 days in rural parts of the country. Huge funds (Rs. 73,000 crore in the last budget) are allocated for this, making it the government's one of the top rural focused schemes. Roughly 60-70% of these resources are spent on Natural Resource Management (NRM) works like check dams, percolation tanks, and irrigation channels. The overall focus of the scheme is on ensuring higher incomes for farmers by increasing the water availability and productivity of land. The traditional way of suitable site identiﬁcation for these structures has been based on local people’s opinion, and taking into consideration factors such as geomorphology, climate, annual rainfall, vegetation cover, distances from farms and so on. 
However, misidentification of suitable locations for NRM works has resulted in non-operation, non-utilization and inefficient investment. On a state or national level, Geographic Information System (GIS) based methods for site suitability analysis are much more time saving and cost effective than field studies. Recommended sites can be cross verified by field workers resulting in a smoother workflow.
